= ojspec

ojspec is a sort of port of RSpec to Objective-J. For the time being, its
purpose is to port a subset of RSpec's unit specification syntax to Objective-J
in a way that makes sense in Objective-J. The idea here is to express tests in a
relatively natural syntax as expectations on what should happen. These same
tests are grouped together in an overall specification.

== Sample

For example, a Room class may need to have name and owner properties that are
assignable (this being a fairly trivial example). A sample spec for that might
be:

 [Test for: Room
       with: function() {
         [Room should: "allow the setting of the name"
               by: function() {
                 var room = [[Room alloc] init];
                 [room setName: "hi"]

                 [[room name] shouldEqual: "hi"]
               }]
         [Room should: "allow the setting of the owner"
               by: function() {
                 var room = [[Room alloc] init];
                 [room setOwner: "john"];

                 [[room owner] shouldEqual: "john"]
               }]
       }]

Once we have that test set up and saved in a RoomSpec.j file, we can run it with
ojspec:

 $ ojspec RoomSpec.j

The ojspec executable assumes that you have the objj executable installed. It
then runs each spec and gives you a running result. The current format for these
results is:

 Room
  - should allow the setting of the name: success
  - should allow the setting of the owner: failure

Specs can also include code that runs before and/or after all spec blocks and
code that runs before and/or after each spec block. For example:

 [Test for: MyClass
       beforeAll: function() { print("Starting!"); }
       beforeEach: function() {
         this.instance = [[MyClass alloc] init];
       }
       checking: function() {
         [MyClass should: "return 5 for reversing"
                  by: function() {
                    [[this.instance reverse] shouldEqual: 5]
                  }];
         [MyClass should: "return 4 for reversing"
                  by: function() {
                    [[this.instance reverse] shouldEqual: 4]
                  }];
       }
       afterEach: function() {
         [this.instance destroy]
       }
       afterAll: function() { print("Done!"); }]

Note that the way to store state from beforeAll: and beforeEach: blocks so that
it is accessible in the checking: and after* blocks is by setting properties on
the this object. You then access them as properties on the this object inside
the checking: block.

== Future

More work to come, including color-coding for success/failure, clearer failure
indications, and stack traces when an exception stops the system. Also planned
is integration with the Ruby ZenTest suite's autotest tool, to continuously run
specifications.

== Author

Contributions so far are entirely from me, Antonio Salazar Cardozo. I'm
currently working at Inquus Corp on OpenStudy, a product designed to help
students help each other in their studying.

I have a rather sporadically updated blog at http://shadowfiend.posterous.com/
